---
layout: post
title: "My Goals"
date: 2024-04-27 17:10:28 +0000
description: What I want to do online.
img:
---

I want to quickly review my goals and share how I want to grow online with this website and more. Self-improvement is a long journey, and I want to apply what I learned over the past few years to more creative, long-term technical projects. 

## Skills
- Implementing projects in frameworks that are outside my comfort zone. (Would love to explore Mojo and Jax)
- Apply my work skills to fun projects.
- Learn skills that aren't necessarily applicable to work. 

There are a thousand articles on the Feynman Technique, and that's because it does work. I love that I have the opportunity at work to be involved in paper reviews, team deep dives, or being able to mentor others. However, finding an audience for technical and research methods can sometimes be difficult. It can also be hard to find areas at work to apply my other technical and research interests.

So, I want to use this website to formalize my learning to be shareable and take advantage of the technique. At the very least, it is for solidifying my understanding, but hopefully, it can help others. 

## Knowledge

- I have been doing topic modeling for over five years and want to share my experience.
- I've built various ML systems covering CI/CD pipelines, DE, cloud, and software architecture to meet complicated business requirements that may be helpful for others. 
- People analytics, machine learning, and the ethics of both.
- Pre-trained language models and how small LMs compare to large LMs.
- Graphs, Taxonomies and Knowledge bases
- Life? 

Over the course of my career and education, I have learned quite a lot. For most of this time, I had notes, tests, essays, project source code, analyses, and meeting and presentation notes. However, I never had it all in one place, and over many years, it's starting to feel like the sprawl of learning more has become an unorganized effort to add to all that I have done. Whether or not this is true, I want this website to document my own personal progress and share what I have learned and created.

## Creativity

- Be involved with collaborating with others.
- Write one article a week.
- Write one poem a week, and revise last week's poem.

To be honest, I'm going over these goals because I started writing about topic modeling and then came up with the idea to write one article a week at the same time. I ended up needing more time to finish the topic modeling article. So, I'm writing this to keep a good habit of practicing my writing. I will need to revise how I approach technical writing so it's in smaller chunks and doesn't turn into a full-blown lit review or tutorial (but maybe eventually, I will get there as well).

# Where to start?
1. Fix this website's mobile picture problem and look for more JavaScript for a more interactive website.
2. Continue writing articles and poetry every week!
    1. Topic modeling
    2. Taxonomy creation and expansion
    3. Cloud/ML/Software
    4. Poetry and more
3. Add more structure to my long-term creative projects to be shared publically and track progress.
4. Collaborate with others!

Throughout improving my life outside work for the past few years, I have understood that growth is brutally slow, but long journeys can be enriching. That's why my goals of sharing online are more of a way of forcing myself to take on bite-sized parts of work more frequently over time. Adding structure and formalizing my learning to be shareable is a solid way of solidifying my learning. Hopefully, it will be a way of making fun projects that can be interactive with others or where I can meet and collaborate with others!


> Tell the ones you love you love them \
> And teach only what you know, and, oh \
> You better know it well 

-- Silver Linings by Mt. Joy